# Microservice Consolidated Logging 
Details taken from https://github.com/CDLUC3/mrt-doc/issues/971

## Assumptions

Based on Ashley's prior experimentation with Open Search, here is our approach
- All java services will add a new library that will generate logs in json format.  These json records will be consumed by Open Search.
  - The older, unstructured log messages do not need to be eliminated immediately BUT these older log messages should not constrain us from modernizing our logging approach.
  - As our services migrate to serverless and container architectures, it will become increasingly difficult to tail log files.
  - The future way to view logs will be to query open search.
  - We will wean ourselves off of the narrative log files as we are able to rely more and more on the Open Search logs.
- Ruby services will be modified to generate json logs
  - Ideally, when logging detains about a Rails request, it will be possible to log the request URL, the return status and the duration in a single log entry.
  - It is currently difficult to obtain this information at one time. 

## Generic Log Record Properties
- date
- time
- hostname
- fqsn (microservice name)
- log level (key-event, severe, error, warn, info, debug)
- duration

## Generic Log Record Properties - User Requests
- thread id
- internal request id (if available)
- request URL (where applicable)
- request IP (check with Marisa on the implications of storing this)

## Generic Log Record Properties - Key Events
- status-code for the request
- duration
- bytes
- bytes_read?
- bytes_written?

## Key attributes by service
_This describes an information object to be populated and submitted with each json log entry.  The object should be as fully populated as possible.  This would likely appear as a "custom" entry in the log json._

- UI
  - all requests
    - user  (check with Marisa on the implications of storing this)
  - collection-level requests
    - collection_ark
    - collection_mnemonic (also called group)
    - search term
  - object/version/file level 
    - ark
    - version
    - path
    - nodenum
    - assembly-token
- Ingest
  - job/batch processing
    - batchid
    - jobid
    - queue id
    - collection-profile
    - user
    - manifest-item-url
  - object/file processing
    - ark
    - localid
    - filename
  - admin requests
    - store request URL    
- Storage
  - node
  - ark
  - version
  - file
- Inventory
  - queue-id
  - ark
  - version
  - file
  - localid
- Replication
  - node id
  - ark
  - ver (where applicable)
  - file (where applicable)  
- Audit
  - batch (date used to batch updates)
    - some failures may apply only at the batch level and may not be ark specific 
  - node id
  - ark
  - version
  - file
- Access
  - file requests
    - node
    - ark
    - version
    - file
  - assembly requests
    - token
    - queue id
    - ark
    - version (where applicable) 
- Admin Tool
  - User
  - Request
  - Parameters
  - where applicable (collection admin)
    - node
    - ark
    - version
    - file  

## Key events to log
- UI ALB
  - Is any ALB log info interesting to track and funnel to Open Search, or is this best to not clutter our logs
- UI
  - Every request/api call is a key event
  - What would this enable?
    - Count logins
    - Count collection browse
    - Count collection search
    - Count object view
    - Count version view
    - Count file view
    - Count object assemble
    - Count object info by API
    - Count local id search via API
    - Count atom feed traversal
- Store
  - Every request/api call is a key event
  - Every file not saved is a key event 
  - Every file saved is a key event
  - Every checksum not verified is a key event 
  - Every checksum verified is a key event (debug mode)
- Ingest
  - Every request/api call is a key event
  - Every queue task handled is a key event
  - Every manifest line item processed is a key event
- Inventory
  - Every request/api call is a key event (local id service)  
  - Every queue task handled is a key event
- Access    
  - Every request/api call is a key event
  - Every queue task handled is a key event
- Audit
  - Every file not verified is a key event
  - Every file verified is a key event (debug mode)
    - Would this be too much?
    - Bytes read/written by node type
  - Every batch (inv_audits table) initiated is a key event 
  - Every batch (inv_audits table) updated is a key event 
- Replication
  - Every request/api call is a key event (admin tool calls directly)
  - Every object replicated is a key event 
  - Every file not saved is a key event 
  - Every file saved is a key event (debug mode)
  - Every checksum not verified is a key event 
  - Every checksum verified is a key event (debug mode)
- Admin Tool
  - Every request/api call is a key event (admin tool calls directly)
